---
title: Blockstack vs. Namecoin
description: Learn about how Blockstack DNS differs from Namecoin.
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1452573992436-6d508f200b30?crop=entropy&fit=crop&fm=jpg&h=1100&ixjsv=2.1.0&ixlib=rb-0.3.5&q=80&w=1500
next: namespaces
---

Blockstack DNS differs from Namecoin DNS in a few fundamental ways.

First, they differ in how the domain name system is operated. Namecoin DNS is operated by nodes of a cryptocurrency called Namecoin, which is a fork of Bitcoin that has it's own separate blockchain. Blockstack DNS, meanwhile, is operated by nodes that read data from and write data to an underlying blockchain, which can be any blockchain that they are configured to operate on top of. The logic for operating the domain name system is decoupled from the logic of the underlying blockchain. This allows a Blockstack network to be configured to operate on any Blockchain in particular, and the main Blockstack network is currently operating on the most secure blockchain - the Bitcoin blockchain.

Second, with Namecoin DNS, routing information is stored directly in the blockchain, which can lead to quite a bit of blockchain bloat. Blockstack DNS, meanwhile, stores only hashes of routing information records in the blockchain, deciding to store the rest in decentralized content-addressable storage units (by default, Blockstack is configured to store data in a DHT). These routing records then can link to other data stored elsewhere, whether that be in a DHT or on a hosted data storage provider like S3. This makes for a much more scalable and cost-efficient design.

Third, with Namecoin DNS, all names are set at the same low price and there are no options for users to create new namespaces and set their own name pricing schemes. This results in rampant squatting and significantly degrades the user experience for anyone trying to register names. Blockstack DNS, meanwhile, has a wide range of options for users to create their own namespaces and set their own name pricing schemes. Namespaces can be created with really cheap names (great for a username namespace) or they can be created with really expensive names (great for a domain namespace resilient to squatting). Name prices can be set to go down with an increase in the number of characters or with the presence of numbers and special characters. And names can be set to expire in a year or they can be set to never expire at all. All these options allow users to design namespaces that encourage registration of names that users want and are willing to pay for, while dis-incentivizing the mass registration of names by squatters. All this leads to a superior user experience for everyone involved.

Last, Blockstack DNS has support for a bunch of really powerful features that Namecoin DNS simply does not. This includes support for multi-party ownership of names, support for light nodes (enabling secure lookups by mobile devices and desktop users with limited ability to run their own nodes), and support for creating namespaces with a pre-instantiated list of names (to facilitate migration of a namespace from another DNS system, like ICANN DNS).