# Storage Meeting 8/1/2017

Takeaways from our storage meeting

## Going forward, we will first optimize for compatibility with S3 and S3 workalikes

* This removes the need for an underlying indexing system, which reduces code complexity and improves performance.
* Our current Dropbox driver is too slow, even with any optimizations we make. It would be better to have a way to sign users up for S3.
* Everyone implements an S3 interface (Google Blob Storage, Azure Blob Storage, Minio, etc.), so forward compatibility might not be a problem. We can always add more drivers later.
* There are already JS libraries for S3 and S3 workalikes, so focusing on S3-compatible backends helps our mobile story.

## We need a key hand-out service for S3

* Users will recieve a **per-app** S3 bucket key when they sign into an
  application (e.g. included with the session token).
* We will run a service to doll out these bucket keys, and we will pay for
  hosting their data.
* Users that already have names or subdomains would get keys by signing a
  challenge from our key service.
  
## Backups

* Writes from the browser will still be replicated locally, allowing data to be backed up to Dropbox, Google Drive, IPFS, etc. (anything that has a "drop folder" abstraction).
* We will open-source the key hand-out service, so anyone can run one.

## Future development work

* Upgrade resolvers, browser, and explorer to use token files instead of
  profiles.
* Block access to `mkdir()`, `rmdir()` operations for the time being.
* Evolve the key hand-out service to implement a [Bitstore](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bitstore)-like system, where users can pay-as-they-go to storage operators.

## Open problems

* What is the best way to do this **without** requiring users
  to already have a blockchain ID?  How do we stop:

   * bots from cleaning out all the keys?
   * people from filling their bucket with endless data?
   * people from hosting illegal content?

  We can address the first problem using our social proof system (i.e. tweet
  your address before you get your key).  We can address the second problem by
  enforcing per-bucket quotas.
* Can we make it so users get one key that can be used to
  generate more keys?  i.e. one per app?
* Do we want to simply remove the notion of a "directory" from Gaia, and turn it
  into a key/value store without any sort of indexing? 
